GSoC [2020] : Custom Distribution Service Phase Three BlogPost (#3640)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2020/08/2020-08-24-custom-distribution-service.adoc

---
layout: post

> title: "Custom Distribution Service : Phase 2 Blogpost"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "Custom Distribution Service : Phase 3 Blogpost"
```

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/102[#102]

=== Findbugs Analysis

Another tool to improve code quality that we included in this phase was findbugs. 
It did catch around 5-10 bugs in my code which I immediately resolved. Most of them were 
around the `Closeable HTTP Request` and an easy fix was the `try with resources`.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/118[#118]

=== Jacoco Code Coverage

We needed to make sure most of the code we write had proper coverage for all branches and
lines. Therefore we decided to include a JaCoco Code Coverage reporter that helped us find the
uncovered lines and areas we need to improve coverage on.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/103[#103]

=== Remove JCasC generation

While developing the service we quickly realised that the generation of the war package broke if we 
included a `configuration as code` section but did not provide a path to the corresponding required `yml`
file. Therefore we took a decision to remove the `casc` section all together. Maybe it will comeback in
a future patch

> * Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/127[#127]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pull Request link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/127[#127]
```

> * Issue link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/issues/65[#65]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Issue link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/issues/65[#65]
```

==== Minor Fixes 

> ** Logging Fix: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/99[#99]

Reviewer: First 3 summaries here do not provide much info for users who are not familiar with the project. If you spend a paragraph on it, maybe adding a few more words would be helpful

Author: TBH I have added all I could, if you can maybe add suggestions I can commit them

Reviewer: Definitely no bandwidth to do it today :( Let's keep it as is, and update later if @kwhetstone @martinda have suggestions

---
layout: post
title: "Custom Distribution Service : Phase 3 Blogpost"
tags:
- service
- distribution
- cloud-native
- gsoc
- gsoc2020
- packaging
- platform-sig
author: sladyn98
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/2020/custom_distribution_service/cds_gsoc.png
---

Hello everyone,

> This is the final blog post for the Custom Distribution Service project during the Google Summer of Code timeline .I have mixed feelings since we are almost near the finish line for one of the most amazing open source programs out there. However it is time to wrap things up for this project and achieve a state where the project can be built upon and extended further. This phase has been super busy with respect to the bug fixes, testing and getting the project hosted, so let us get straight into the updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the final blog post for the Custom Distribution Service project during the Google Summer of Code timeline.
I have mixed feelings since we are almost near the finish line for one of the most amazing open source programs out there.
However, it is time to wrap things up for this project and achieve a state where the project can be built upon and extended further.
This phase has been super busy with respect to the bug fixes, testing and getting the project hosted, so let us get straight into the phase 3 updates.
```

== Fixes and Code quality assurance

=== Set Jenkinsfile agent to linux

We realised that the build was failing on windows and that there was not really a use-case

> for running it on windows as of maybe. Maybe it could be on a future roadmap. Therefore we 

Reviewer 2: Is there a link for the roadmap ticket?
```suggestion
for running it on windows for right now. Maybe it could be on a future roadmap. Therefore, we 
```

Author: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/issues/151

> decided to shift the testing to only linux agents

Reviewer 2: Probably should clarify that this is in terms of running on the Jenkins server.

Author: Done :+1:

We realised that the build was failing on windows and that there was not really a use-case
for running it on windows for right now. Maybe it could be on a future roadmap. Therefore, we 
decided to shift the testing to only linux agents with respect to running the tests on the jenkins
server.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/116[#116]

=== Backend port error message

Spring boot has a default message on the `port:8080` and therefore we wanted to change 
it to a custom message on the backend. So the major takeaway here is that we needed to 
implement the `Error Controller` interface and include a custom message in it. 
This was technical debt from the last phase and was completed and merged during this phase.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/92[#92]

=== PMD Analysis

> This was suggested by Martin which was a real life-saver. The project originally did not 

Author: Got it :+1:

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/102[#102]

=== Findbugs Analysis

Another tool to improve code quality that we included in this phase was findbugs. 
It did catch around 5-10 bugs in my code which I immediately resolved. Most of them were 
around the `Closeable HTTP Request` and an easy fix was the `try with resources`.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/118[#118]

=== Jacoco Code Coverage

We needed to make sure most of the code we write had proper coverage for all branches and
lines. Therefore we decided to include a JaCoco Code Coverage reporter that helped us find the
uncovered lines and areas we need to improve coverage on.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/103[#103]

=== Remove JCasC generation

While developing the service we quickly realised that the generation of the war package broke if we 
included a `configuration as code` section but did not provide a path to the corresponding required `yml`
file. Therefore we took a decision to remove the `casc` section all together. Maybe it will comeback in

> a future patch

Reviewer 2: You can add a link to the GitHub issue to add it back so if someone is interested, they can follow that ticket.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/127[#127]

==== Minor Fixes 

** Logging Fix: link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/99[#99]
** Docs Fix : link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/120[#120]
** Update Center Dump Fix : link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/125[#125]
** Class Path Fix: link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/126[#126]
** Release Drafter Addition: link: https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/136[#136]

== Front end

=== Community Config Navigation link

There was no community configuration link present for navigation which was added here.
 Now it is easier to navigate to the community page from the home page itself.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/100[#100]

== Docker updates

=== Build everything with Docker

> This was one of the major changes with respect to docker this phase. Initially the process was

Reviewer 2: It was so much more than docker!  You can 100% highlight here how this change makes it easy for community adoption removing the requirement to have to build everything locally.

Author: Yeah : )

to run maven locally, generate all of the files and then copy all of its contents into the container.
However, with this change we are going to generate all of the files inside the docker container itself.
Allowing the user to just run a couple of commands to get the service up and running. 

So some of the major changes we did with respect to the dockerfile was:

> a) Copy all of the configuration files and `pom.xml` into the container..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a) Copy all of the configuration files and `pom.xml` into the container.
```

b) Run the command `mvn clean package` inside the container which generates the jar.

c) Run the jar inside the container.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/104[#104]

== Hosting updates

This process was supposed to be a future roadmap, however the infra team approved and was super helpful
in making this process as smooth as possible. Thanks to Gavin, Tim and Oblak for making this possible.
Here is the google group link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkins-infra/c/v3UJfiFte8w[dicussion]

* Infra Docker PR link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/131[#131]

* Infra Project Addition PR link: https://github.com/jenkins-infra/charts/pull/393[#393]

== Testing Updates

=== Unit test the services

> With respect to testing of the service one of the major milestones for 

Reviewer 2: Can also mention that this is important for community hosting and adoption.

* Pull Request link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/custom-distribution-service/pull/145[#145]

== Hosting

> The project has now been hosted link:https://customize.jenkins.io/[here].

Reviewer: Would it make sense to mention it is an Alpha version that still needs fixes to be functional?
